feat: add actions page (#1134)
ory/docs: docs/identities/sign-in/actions.mdx

---
id: actions
title: Customize login and registration flows with webhooks and actions

> sidebar_label: Actions and webhooks

Reviewer: Why no `slug`?

Author: Did not know what good keywords would be

Reviewer: So you `slug` as optional?

Author: Yes, optional!

> sidebar_label: Actions and webhooks

Reviewer: So... `Actions` aren't our name for webhooks/hooks? I'm confused.

Author: Webhooks are a type of action :) An action is also: invalidate session after login, require verification, ...

Developers usually search for webhook if they want to make an HTTP RPC call, therefore I think it's worth mentioning it here.

/cc @tomekpapiernik

Reviewer: I understand the intention, but the execution makes it confusing I think. Even later in this doc you mention `Ory Actions` as if it were its own thing, the sidebar and title say "Actions **and** webhooks" which makes it seem that webhooks aren't Actions...

---

> # Customize Login and registration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Customize login and registration
```
Sentence case for titles and headings, please.

> You may customize login and registration flows in many ways. Let's look at a few examples.

Author: Took note

> You may customize login and registration flows in many ways. Let's look at a few examples.

Author: Sound good?

```suggestion
Let's look at a few login and registration flow customizations using Ory Actions.
```

> You may customize login and registration flows in many ways. Let's look at a few examples.

Reviewer 2: Maybe:

```suggestion
Let's look at examples how you can customize login and registration flows using Ory Actions.
```

## Third-party services and webhooks

Make webhook calls to a 3rd party service provider when a user signs up or logs in:

- [Mailchimp](../../kratos/hooks/05_webhooks-integrations.mdx#mailchimp)
- [Segment](../../kratos/hooks/05_webhooks-integrations.mdx#segment)
- [Hubspot](../../kratos/hooks/05_webhooks-integrations.mdx#hubspot)
- other [webhook targets](../../kratos/hooks/01_configure-hooks.mdx#webhooks)

> ## Invalidate all other session on login

Author: Yeah I was struggling with this headline... do you have a suggestion? It's: Session other then one that you just logged in to

> ## Invalidate all other session on login

Reviewer 2: "Invalidate previous sessions" ?

> ## Invalidate all other session on login

Author: Very nice idea

```shell
ory patch identity-config $project_id \
  --add '/selfservice/flows/login/after/hooks=[{"hook": "revoke_active_sessions"}]'
```

To use this feature only for a specific login method use:

```shell
ory patch identity-config $project_id \
  --add '/selfservice/flows/login/after/password/hooks=[{"hook": "revoke_active_sessions"}]' \
  --add '/selfservice/flows/login/after/oidc/hooks=[{"hook": "revoke_active_sessions"}]' \
  --add '/selfservice/flows/login/after/webauthn/hooks=[{"hook": "revoke_active_sessions"}]'
```

### Disable session invalidation

To remove the hook you need to find the position of the hook:

1. List the configured hooks using

   ```shell
   ory get identity-config $project_id \
     --format=jsonpath='selfservice.flows.login.after'
   ```

2. Check the JSON output and find the array index of the hook:

   ```json
   {
     "hooks": [
       {
         "hook": "some_other_hook"
       },
       {
         "hook": "revoke_active_sessions"
       }
     ],
     "oidc": {
       "hooks": []
     },
     "password": {
       "hooks": []
     },
     "webauthn": {
       "hooks": []
     }
   }
   ```

> 3. And finally remove the hook using:

Author: ```suggestion
3. Remove the hook using:
```

   ```shell
   ory patch identity-config $project_id \
     --remove '/selfservice/flows/login/after/hooks/1'

>    ```

Author: I see, basically `--remove '/selfservice/flows/login/after/hooks/$index'` and `$index` is coming from here (it's the second item in the list so index 1): https://github.com/ory/docs/pull/1134/files/838109c2556fea6d40e1f01e29fb0bee6a7dce74#diff-34fe5107141c610fd47c81a91cafecf4f9df84c003f97f15eed1949b48ee6942R54-R59

Any ideas how to clearify this?

## Require verified email address on login

:::info

Ory does not recommend requiring email verification on login. Show a banner and limit functionality for unverified accounts to
improve sign up conversion.

:::

To allow only users with a verified email to sign in, follow these steps:

1. Open the [email verification page in the Ory Console](https://console.ory.sh/projects/current/verification).
2. Toggle **Require Verified Address for Login**.

### First sign in without verification

If sessions are issued after registration, users will be signed in after registration, but will need to verify their email address

> before they can sign in on another device or session. Learn how to [be logged in after registration](#session-hook).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
before they can sign in on another device or session.
```

Author: Is this link not useful here? We are talking about login after registration, should we not link to it?

> <a id={"session-hook"} />

Reviewer: This anchor is so close to the hyperlink that takes you to it that it doesn't really make sense to have it.

Author: It gives the anchor a fixed ID which means that we do not have to update all the links in case the h2 content changes :)

Author: Point made point taken

> <a id={"session-hook"} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Be logged in after registration

1. Open the [Ory Console base settings page](https://console.ory.sh/projects/current/auth).
2. Toggle **Sign In After Registration**.

## Block registration with advanced validation

> With Ory Actions it is easy to perform advanced validation and block registration when:
> 
> - The email domain does not match a certain value.
> - The IP address is not allowed.
> - An invalid invite code or invite password was used.

Author: ```suggestion
With Ory Actions it is easy to perform advanced validation and block registration when:

- The email domain doesn't match a certain value.
- The IP address isn't allowed.
- An invalid invite code or invite password is used.
```

> - ...

Author: How about:

```suggestion
- Any other advanced validation logic.
```

---
id: actions
title: Customize login and registration flows with webhooks and actions
sidebar_label: Customize login and registration
---

> # Customize login and registration

Reviewer: I see what you mean. Your change makes the situation a bit clearer.

You can customize login and registration flows using Ory Actions. This includes calling external services or logic with webhooks
and triggering logic that is built-in to Ory, such requiring a verified email address to sign in.

## Trigger external logic with webhooks

Make webhook calls to third-party service providers when users sign up or sign in:

- [Mailchimp](../../kratos/hooks/05_webhooks-integrations.mdx#mailchimp)
- [Segment](../../kratos/hooks/05_webhooks-integrations.mdx#segment)
- [Hubspot](../../kratos/hooks/05_webhooks-integrations.mdx#hubspot)
- Other [webhook targets](../../kratos/hooks/01_configure-hooks.mdx#webhooks)

### Control who registers with additional validation

Use Ory Actions to add extra validation that allows you to control exactly who can sign up. For example, you can prevent users
from signing up when:

> - their email domain does'nt match a certain value - this way you can allow only users from certain organizations to sign up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- their email domain doesn't match a certain value - this way you can allow only users from certain organizations to sign up.
```

> - their IP address isn't allowed - this way you can prevent user registrations from locales where you don't provide services

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- their IP address isn't allowed. This way you can prevent user registrations from locales where you don't provide services.
```

> - they used an invalid invite code or invite password to sign up - this way you can ensure that newly registered users don't get

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- they used an invalid invite code or invite password to sign up. This way you can ensure that newly registered users don't get
```

>   access to expired content or functionality

Reviewer: Good catch, I missed this somehow :/

>   access to expired content or functionality

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  access to expired content or functionality.
```

Use flow-interrupting webhooks to add this validation to sign-up and registration flows.

Read the [Flow-interrupting webhooks documentation](../../kratos/hooks/01_configure-hooks.mdx#flow-interrupting-webhooks) to learn
more.

> ## Revoke other sessions at login

Reviewer: I have a bit of a problem with the word "previous" here. I could have my phone on the desk with an active session that gets revoked when I sign in on my desktop. Is the session on the phone "previous" then? "Previous" draws attention to the session's age and I don't think it's the deciding factor here.

> ## Revoke other sessions at login

Author: Ah I see, so the time aspect depends on when the session was created, not when it was last active. Maybe

```suggestion
## Revoke previously issued sessions on login
```

> ## Revoke other sessions at login

Reviewer: Ok, if you REALLY don't like "other" then "previously issued" will do the job too. :)

You can revoke all of the user's active session when they log in to your system. This allows the users to have only one active
session, and ensures that they access your services from one point of entry (a device, a browser) at a time.

To enable this behavior, use the [Ory CLI](../../guides/cli/01_installation.mdx).

> Run this command to revoke all active session's of the user after every login:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run this command to revoke all active sessions of the user after every login:
```

```shell
ory patch identity-config {project_id} \
  --add '/selfservice/flows/login/after/hooks=[{"hook": "revoke_active_sessions"}]'
```

> To use this feature only for specific method(s), run this command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this feature only for specific methods, run this command:
```

no parentheses if possible at all 🙏

```shell
ory patch identity-config {project_id} \
  --add '/selfservice/flows/login/after/password/hooks=[{"hook": "revoke_active_sessions"}]' \
  --add '/selfservice/flows/login/after/oidc/hooks=[{"hook": "revoke_active_sessions"}]' \
  --add '/selfservice/flows/login/after/webauthn/hooks=[{"hook": "revoke_active_sessions"}]'
```

### Disable session revocation

Follow these steps to disable session revocation on login:

1. List all configured hooks for the `after` login method:

   ```shell
   ory get identity-config {project_id} \
     --format=jsonpath='selfservice.flows.login.after'
   ```

2. Check the JSON output and identify the array index of the `revoke_active_sessions` hook:

>    ```json

Reviewer: 👍🏻

   {
     "hooks": [
       {
         "hook": "some_other_hook" // The index of this hook is '0'.
       },
       {
         "hook": "revoke_active_sessions" // The index of this hook is '0'.
       }
     ],
     "oidc": {
       "hooks": []
     },
     "password": {
       "hooks": []
     },
     "webauthn": {
       "hooks": []
     }
   }
   ```

3. Remove the hook by passing the hook index in the command:

   ```shell
   ory patch identity-config {project_id} \

>      --remove '/selfservice/flows/login/after/hooks/1'

Reviewer: I'd skip this comment - the one you added to the json + the way the sentence is phrased should suffice.

>      --remove '/selfservice/flows/login/after/hooks/1'

Author: kk
